---
layout: single
permalink: "/join/"
classes: wide
author_profile: true
toc: true
---
# Mentoring philosophy
My laboratory has studied mechanics in regulating health and pathology of cartilaginous tissues for over 25 years.  We advance development of biomaterials for cell and drug delivery, advance studies of cellular mechano-biology, perform tissue mechanical testing, develop pre-clinical models of musculoskeletal pathology, and use mathematical models to advance an understanding of degeneration and regeneration of intervertebral disc, cartilage and synovium.  In pursuit of this research, I have worked to develop individuals into independent scientific investigators and champions of science.  Each person I mentor is different, and different goals require different skills, but I aspire to help each develop a set of universal skills — being curious about one’s own and others’ research, identifying good research projects and questions, managing projects and learning the scientific method, acknowledging shortcomings, and communicating effectively. Over this period, I have mentored 45 individuals in independent pre-doctoral and post-doctoral research experiences, with a majority moving on to careers in academic, government or private sector research and science. **You can read more about Dr. Setton's mentoring philosophy [here.](https://wustl.box.com/s/mvk5oby0ywecqmrei1hn7wt96smdm56a)**
# Open positions
## Postdoctoral associate position in musculoskeletal tissue regeneration
A postdoctoral position is available immediately for applicants interested in cell-mediated repair, drug delivery, or nerve-tissue cross-talk in application to arthritis and intervertebral disc degeneration.  The individual will have the opportunity to design their own project and work as part of a multidisciplinary team of engineers, biologists, materials scientists and clinicians.<br><br>
<b>Requirements:</b> Qualifications include PhD in biology, biomedical engineering or other relevant areas of biomedical sciences. The ideal candidate will be self-motivated, independent, and possess training in areas of cell biology, cell culture, materials science or drug delivery, musculoskeletal pathology, or immunology. Candidates should also have a demonstrated record of achievement, as well as excellent written and verbal communication skills to work with a multidisciplinary research team. Interested individuals should send a curriculum vitae to Dr. Setton.
## Postdoctoral associate position in electrophysiology and musculoskeletal pathology
A postdoctoral position is available immediately for applicants interested in advancing research in nerve-tissue cross-talk in application to arthritis and intervertebral disc degeneration. The goals of this project are to understand neuronal remodeling in response to degenerative musculoskeletal diseases.  Project work will involve tissue characterization including measurement of nerve activation and generalized neuronal responses. The individual will have the opportunity to design their own project and work as part of a multidisciplinary team of engineers, biologists, materials scientists, and clinicians.<br><br>
<b>Requirements:</b> Qualifications include a PhD in any engineering discipline or related, and prior experience with biomedical sciences. The ideal candidate will be self-motivated, independent, and possess training in areas of electrophysiology, cell biology, cell culture, or musculoskeletal pathology. Candidates should also have a demonstrated record of achievement, as well as excellent written and verbal communication skills to work with a multidisciplinary research team. Interested individuals should send a curriculum vitae to Dr. Setton.

## Postdoctoral associate position in hydrogel design for biomedical applications
A postdoctoral position is available immediately for applicants interested in injectable hydrogel synthesis or biocompatible design of hydrogels for cell-mediated repair.  The goals of this project are to develop injectable and cell-compatible hydrogels for delivery to defect sites in degenerative musculoskeletal diseases, and to study related interaction between host and donor cells.  Project work will involve tissue characterization, including protein and RNA responses of cells to hydrogel materials. The individual will have the opportunity to design their own project and work as part of a multidisciplinary team of engineers, biologists, materials scientists, and clinicians.<br><br>

<b>Requirements:</b> Qualifications include PhD in biology, chemistry, chemical or biomedical engineering or a related field. The ideal candidate will be self-motivated, independent, and possess training in areas of hydrogel synthesis and characterization, cell biology, cell culture, materials science or musculoskeletal pathology. Candidates should also have a demonstrated record of achievement, as well as excellent written and verbal communication skills to work with a multidisciplinary research team. Interested individuals should send a curriculum vitae to Dr. Setton.

## Laboratory research technician I
The Setton Laboratory has an immediate need for an individual to work with a multidisciplinary research group on models of spine disease. The individual will primarily be responsible for supporting protocol development and execution of studies of pain generation in models of intervertebral disc degeneration. The project will entail data acquisition and analysis of data from electrophysiological recording of neuronal populations, histological analyses of spine tissues, and related cellular assays. A component of this position will contribute to routine laboratory maintenance, including maintaining supplies, schedules, general organization and supervision of students. The successful candidate can pursue independent research projects in the laboratory and to assist in the preparation of manuscripts, grant proposals and presentations, as well as to help with the training and supervision of undergraduate engineering students in independent research projects.

The Setton Lab uses mechanical engineering, materials synthesis, and cell and molecular biology to advance drug- and biomaterial-based musculoskeletal therapies. Our research program inherently spans several biological scales and encompasses multiple technical approaches. This includes (and is not limited to): electrophysiology of organ and isolated cells, optical imaging, immunohistochemistry, and rodent behavioral assays. Our lab offers techniques and topics of potential interest to a large community of applicants because of our interdisciplinary approach, and short-term projects can be tailored to candidates’ specific interests. 

**Requirements:** Qualifications include BA or BS in biology, biomedical engineering, or other relevant areas of biomedical sciences. Prior experience with electrophysiology, cellular assays or animal models is desirable. The ideal candidate will be self-motivated, independent, and curious about advancing studies of musculoskeletal pathology. Candidates should also have strong written and verbal communication skills and a demonstrated ability to work with a multidisciplinary research team. Interested individuals should send a curriculum vitae to Dr. Setton.
